 The extensive application of multi-core system improves the concurrency of tasks, however, brings the extra cost of inter-core communication. Inter-core communication will significant affect the schedule length and real-time of data related tasks. Aiming at the problem of real-time task response in multi-core processor system, this paper proposes a data related task scheduling algorithm (DTSV) for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (VANETs), with considering the multi-task concurrency mechanism in VANETs. Firstly, three types of data in Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks applications and their features are described and analyzed according to the vehicular networks protocol standards. In vehicular networks protocol standards, tasks of vehicular networks applications are divided into three types, Critical Safety, Traffic Efficiency and Non-Safety. Every type of task consists of a lot of parameters. In these parameters, some of them are not included in only one task, but included in several tasks. So it can be inferred that tasks of vehicular networks applications are related by data correlation. Based on the common data related task model and the task characteristics in vehicle networks, a related task model based on data correlation of vehicular networks applications is defined. Secondly, an evaluation function is proposed according to the related task model. The evaluation function is mainly constructed by the communicating tasks of computing task. And then a multidimensional vector is gotten from the evaluation function, to characterize the strong and weak correlation between tasks. Furthermore, a data related task scheduling algorithm based on the related task model and evaluation function is designed to reduce the inter-core communications during task execution by assigning tasks which have deep correlation in data into a same core. There are two phases for the algorithm, initialization phase and running phase. The initialization phase of the algorithm works at the start time of VANET system, to assign periodic tasks which generated at the start time. And the initialization phase can significantly reduce the schedule length of periodic tasks. The running phase of the algorithm works at the running time of VANET system, to assign aperiodic tasks which generated at the running time. It can marginally improve the real-time of aperiodic tasks with considering features of aperiodic tasks. Meanwhile, the data correlation of aperiodic tasks is pre-processed at the running time. After that, the real-time of aperiodic tasks can be further improved. Finally, the experimental and simulation is conducted to compare DTSV with other multi-core task scheduling algorithm. According to the result of the experimental, DTSV can reduce the schedule length by 10.6%. It is a considerable optimization for tasks which are continuously executing. The response time of aperiodic tasks can be reduced by 33.5% averagely. Aperiodic tasks generally require high real-time in vehicular networks. And the decrease of response time can significantly improve the safety of vehicular networks. The results of the experimental show that DTSV can effectively reduce the inter-core communication delay, shorten the task schedule length, reduce response time of tasks and improve the real-time of task response to data related periodic tasks and aperiodic tasks.
